Dr. Jin Li is a Partner Researcher Manager of the Cloud 
Computing and Storage group at MSR Technologies. He is the architect and 
the lead programmer of Prajna, a cloud computing platform (in 
prototype). Prajna is a response to fill the vacuum of big data computing 
on .Net platform, it is open sourced at https://github.com/msrccs/Prajna/.
It is designed to be a generic distributed computing platform, with core 
functionality being the execution of an arbitrary closure (C#, F#, native 
code, etc.) on any remote node, in public cloud or in private cluster. 
Prajna supports interactive big data computing across a cluster with in-memory 
computation. The programming API is similar to Spark. Prajna has also a 
managed web service (Prajna Hub), which can help developer to quickly 
prototype and host cloud service and run services on mobile Apps. 
Prajna also supports distributed machine learning (e.g., distributed neural 
network trainer using Caffe on each node). 

Partner with Windows Azure, he leads a small team of MSR researchers to 
develop the local reconstruction code (LRC) in Windows Azure Storage. 
This is a new family of erasure codes that provide significant	reduction 
in storage overhead and cut down the minimum number of fragments that 
need to be read to reconstruct a data fragment. It leads to hundreds of 
millions dollars of savings for Microsoft, a Best Paper Award at USENIX 
ATC 2012 and a 2013 Microsoft Technical Community Network Storage 
Technical Achievement Award. His group has also architected the erasure 
code used in Storage Spaces in Windows 8.1 and Windows Server 2012 R2, 
and the erasure code used in Lync, Xbox and RemoteFX. 

Partner with Windows File Server group, he architected and implemented 
the Primary Data Deduplication feature in Windows Server 2012 and End-to-
End Deduplication for Storage Virtualization in Windows Server 2012 R2. 
Key contributions include a new data chunking algorithm, 	a low RAM 
footprint indexing data structure to detect duplicate data (based on 
ChunkStash), and a data partitioning and reconciliation technique, the 
latter two for scaling index resource usage with data size. It leads to 
major saving to customers (20-82%), and is among top 3 features for 
Windows File Server introduced at Windows Server 2012. The feature has 
received rave reviews from press, and there are evidence that some 
customers upgrading to Windows Server 2012 for the primary data 
deduplication feature only.

He has pioneered a series of research to exploit the benefit of SSD for 
high performance storage applications. His work, FlashStore, has 
implemented a SSD optimized,	low RAM footprint key-value store that 
organizes storage on flash in a log-structured manner. It was tech 
transferred to Pegasus SSD in Microsoft backend. SkimpyStas has 
implemented an ultra-low RAM footprint key-value store. The storage layer 
design of SkimpyStash has been incorporated into BW-Tree, a joint project 
with MSR Database group, and Azure DocumentDB team, and is shipping in 
SQL Server 2014 (Hekaton) and Azure DocumentDB.

Partner with Remote Desktop Virtualization (RDV) team, he has assisted to 
architect and implement the RemoteFX for WAN feature in Windows 8 and 
Windows Server 2012, which provides fast and fluid user experience in a 
remote session running over any WAN and wireless networks. 

His other invention has been integrated into many Microsoft products, 
such as WMA9, Live Messenger, Live Mesh, Windows 7, Lync, Bing, Xbox Live. 
He was awarded the prestigious Microsoft Gold Star Service Award 4 times, 
in 1999, 2001, 2006 and 2010. Dr. Li has graduated from Microsoft Member 
Bench Program in 2007. 


He received his Ph.D. (with honor) from Tsinghua University in 1994. He 
joined Microsoft in 1999, as one of the founding members of Microsoft 
Research Asia (Beijing, China). (He has won a Microsoft Gold Star service 
award in 1999 for his contribution). From 2000, Dr. Li has also served as 
an Affiliated Professor in Tsinghua University. 

He was the recipient of Young Investigator Award from Visual 
Communication and Image Processing’98 (VCIP) in 1998, the ICME 2009 Best 
Paper Award, and USENIX ATC 2012 Best Paper Award. He is/was the 
Associate Editor/Guest Editor of IEEE Trans. On Multimedia, Journal of 
Selected Area of Communication, Journal of Visual Communication and Image 
Representation, P2P networking and applications, Journal of 
Communications. He is the current ICME steering committee chair. 
He has served/will serve as the General Chair of PV2009, the lead Program 
Chair of ICME 2011, the TPC Chair of CCNC 2013 and the TPC Chair of ACM 
Multimedia 2016. He is an IEEE Fellow. 

